Infsci 2725 | Assignment 1: Relational Database SQL

———Goal:
	Create relations to store data
		normalize relations
		employ foreign key constraints on necessary columns

	load data into relations 

	perform queries to answer questions


——-Deliverables:

	describe the schemas of your relations(CREATE statements)

	explain your data import strategy (python library/csv importer/shell command/etc)

	queries / answers to my questions (answer first query after)



	Remember you may not need all the columns so you may choose to build a model that will be the minimal to answer the questions.
	Automation is always the goal.
	There is a deadline ;)

————————————questions——————————————————————

1 
	a)how many players are inducted into the hall of fame?
	b)how many distinct players in the batting data set are in the hall of fame?
		
2
	a)what player has exactly 3000 hits total for his career?
	b)what year was he inducted into the hall of fame?

3
	what player had the highest number of homeruns in 1919?

4
	what team has had the most hits after the year 2000, how many?


5
	a)what player has the most cumulative hits?
	b)how many does he have?
	c)is he in the hall of fame?
	d)how many votes has he received total?


6
	a)what 3 players have the highest number of cumulative strikeouts over their career that have been inducted into the hall of fame?
	b)how many total strikeouts do they each have?


7
	a)what 3 players have the highest cumulative total number of homeruns and have been inducted into the hall of fame?
	b)what 3 players have the highest cumulative total number of homeruns and have NOT been inducted into the hall of fame?


8
	what player had the highest batting average from 1930 to 1940 (inclusively) with a cumulative total of hits over 1800 and
	has NOT been elected into the hall of fame? batting average = hits/atbats

9
	what player averaged the highest number of walks from 1900-1920 (inclusively) with over 500 atbats?

10
	write a query that uses a non equi join and explain what you are doing.

11
	write a query that uses an OUTER Join and explain what you are doing.


